ah bah Liu Yin
yo what's up I got a genuinely
meaningful question from one of my
patreon supporters and it's kind of been
burning a hole in my pocket
beeping to get around it and answer it
so this question comes from Mohammed
Socrates normally I only use the first
names of people who write into me with
questions on patreon by email otherwise
in this case I feel confident that I can
refer to him as Socrates without
revealing too much of his personal
information but I showed to Mohammed
Saturdays he writes to me saying I would
love to hear your personal experience
with non-vegan friends and your
philosophy on friendship in general I
think you could give us a unique
perspective and take on such a delicate
and deep matter given your experience in
age Wow so it's a flattering question
and it is true more than a year ago I
did make some videos talking about
friendship mostly in relationship to
politics political aspirations trying to
make the world a better place and how
friendship is an important part of that
but he's obviously asking for something
deeper and broader and also addressing
friendship with non-vegans the nature of
friendship between adults I think it's
very different in Scotland as opposed to
England I think it's very different in
Portugal as opposed to Spain I know it's
very different in France in contrast to
Germany and within the South of France
you could see right away how different
it was for French people who were of
Moroccan ancestry North African ancestry
as opposed to French people of other
ethnic origins so friendship sometimes
across very small cultural divisions
small cultural barriers can be
profoundly different and I have an old
friend or frenemy here in China who used
to say yes he has a PhD in history and
he used to say that different social
classes generally relate to one another
like different ethnic groups and the
first time he said that to me actually I
thought yeah I you know what I've never
quite thought of it in those terms
before maybe I never quite wanted to
accept it in those terms before but yeah
as much as we talk about generalizations
of a behavior and culture in terms of
nationality or ethnicity very often the
differences between rich and poor
the sometimes subtle dotted lines
between the social classes you can move
down from grades in rich and poor these
things also influence nature friendship
but for me coming from Canada as I do
the mean disappointment in my life was
discovering the extent to which
friendship between adults only exists
when people have a common motive linked
to sex money or once in a while things
fall into a third category along the
lines of drugs and alcohol when you're
clean and sober as I am I don't drink
any alcohol I don't use any drugs you're
taking yourself out of those lesser
categories and then it seems like people
are only motivated to make the time to
talk to you if they're motivated by sex
or if they're motivated by money and
once you're familiar with that whenever
you become familiar that in Canadian
culture and I think in some cultures
more than others as an adult then I
think you start to value almost any
friendship that's offered to you that
stands on a basis outside of those
things whether it's intellectual or
political it's based on some kind of
positive aspiration change the world or
even if it is just based on curiosity so
what is friendship I think the one
original thought I have to contribute
here is that contrary to so much of our
cultural programming growing up I do not
believe that friendship is about knowing
other people is about understanding
other people or that it is fundamentally
and integrally about them understanding
you about being understood about being
known or about being appreciated I think
if you approach friendship in terms of
appreciation in that sense you're really
on a downward spiral of looking for
other people's approval and other
people's validation and if you're
looking for understanding I think again
that really may not be a friend that
you're looking for I think the crucial
discipline you must have in order to
make new friends and to maintain
friendships over long periods of time
sometimes over long large distances is
actually to be detached
about whether or not you know somebody
at all to be able to set aside again and
again everything you do know about
somebody and to encounter them without
those preconceptions without those
expectations to let them show you who
they really are so for me I think that
friendship between adults relies much
less on knowing and being known and much
more on setting aside your
preconceptions and being willing to say
I don't think I know you
I don't assume I understand you I'm
going to meet you today I'm going to
find out who you are and in many ways
some subtle and profound some obvious
you're not the same person you were five
years ago and the people who can't do
that again those of you have some gray
hairs some of you'll be nodding your
heads saying yeah I know just what
you're talking about but it's really
impossible to maintain a friendship with
someone who still thinks of you as the
man you were at age 25 or the teenager
you were age 15 some people seek comfort
in that some people want to have friends
and relatives who will forever regard
them as the person they were when they
played high school football or when they
had some particular achievement of their
life in university and the younger years
or what have you but doesn't matter
whether it's 25 or 45 or any other
moment in time I think that the type of
knowledge we're talking about in
friendship is not love is not certainty
is not understanding but is instead a
constant state of somewhat refined doubt
and openness friendship I think is not
about coming together and staying
together I think it is to quote myself a
perpetual parting of ways you part ways
again and again you come together again
again and you discover who someone is
not from a blank sheet of paper not from
a state of total ignorance but a guess
from a state of compassionate inquiry
put it that way because on a deeper
level you care about this person enough
to let them show you who they are you
care about them enough that you want to
find out who they are but you have to
discipline yourself not to bring your
preconceptions to that not to insist on
your understanding of who they ought to
be this is why it is so difficult for
parents to really be friends with their
own children even if they behave in a
manner that's friendly most parents are
constantly hung up on their notion of
who their child could be who their child
should be who their child ought to be
and from my perspective that is so to
speak the death of friendship ah ba Liu
Yin